>> Nina Zakharenko: We're going to
talk about libraries and modules.
So I've been using a few modules here and
there.
You've seen me import a few things,
datetime, random.
There was a library that helped me
do a live reloading of my modules.
And that's just the thing about Python,
the language was designed
to be batteries included.
It has a rich and versatile standard
library, which is immediately available.
I didn't have to download or
install anything external,
it just comes with the interpreter.
And many people believe that this has
given the Python language
a head start in a lot of cases.
It's really helped vault Python to be
the popular tool that it is today.
So let's take a look at some of those
helpful packages in the standard library.
One of the downsides of
the standard library is
that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's really
optimized for
having a rich feature set, and
it's also optimized for
backwards compatibility.
So as the Python language grows,
for the most part they try
to maintain as much backwards
compatibility as possible.
That means that a lot of libraries
included are a little bit hard to use, but
it's really easy to install
external libraries as well.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Some of the commonly
used features of the standard library.
sys, S-Y-S, that provides system-specific
parameters and functions.
OS has a lot of methods available for
working with the operating
system interface.
And there's a great os.path submodule that
helps us handle files on the file path.
math gives us a lot of
advanced math functions.
And json is an easy-to-use json parser and
encoder.
Python even gives you a lot of other
built-in libraries like database access,
logging, Internet protocols,
multimedia, there's a debugger,
and there are libraries for
extending Python itself.
Later, after this class, you can look
at this link for the full list of
standard libraries and you'll see
this guide from docs.python.org.
So the language library.
It'll show you all of the,
let me me bump up the font size there.
It'll show you everything that's
available on the standard library,
so a very quick tour.
And as you can see,
there's a lot of stuff here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, I mean, you can
see there's a quite a bit more to scroll
through, but,
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you're not sure
if something is included with the Python
language, this is a good place to look.